In the last lectures, we deployed our app by deploying it as two separated apps, back-end and Angular app,
we can also deploy it as one app though. For that,
let's first of all make sure that we build our Angular app as a folder into our back-end folder, so that
we just deploy the entire content of the back-end folder as one single app. For that we can go to the
angular.json file which is used by the CLI to configure our project
and there, we can change the output path for when we are building our application,
we can do that here under output path.
Let's change this to back-end Angular,
you can name this whatever you want.
Now with that, if you run ng build --prod, it should build that Angular app into a sub-folder
of your back-end folder, so into that Angular sub-folder that should be created there.
Of course make sure to choose a folder which doesn't exist yet,
so using controllers would not be ideal because you would delete your existing code.
Now once it's done, you have that new Angular folder here which contains the compiled application
and now we just need to adjust our code here to serve that application successfully.
It would be an idea to serve our Angular app
if we're getting a request which is just targeting slash nothing.
So if we have requests targeting API posts or users, we forward them to these routes,
if we have a request targeting anything else actually, then I want to handle that with Angular
let's say, that setting is especially important by the way because you want to ensure that the Angular
router can take over and if you only forward requests targeting slash to the Angular app, then you
would not be able to handle the cases where the user directly enters /auth/
for example and you don't want to manually set up all these paths here to map them to a Angular
page,
instead you always want to return that Angular index.html file,
so this file, you always want to return that if it is a route you are not recognizing otherwise,
so if it's not one of your API routes basically.
That also means that you must not use a path you have defined here in your Angular app with the Angular
router because it will never reach the Angular router because it would be handled by the back-end first,
that's important to keep in mind. All other requests should be handled though and therefore, we simply
don't need a filter here.
Instead whenever we reach this part here which we don't if we make it into one of these routes, then
I want to return the Angular app.
So here I defined my well-known function with request, response,
next, here I want to send back a file,
the index.html file.
So here I can call send file and here, I just want to select that index.html file
and here we have to define an absolute path which I'll do with the help of the path package here.
So I will create a path by using path join here and I'll join the Angular folder with the index.html
file there,
this should forward that file for any request not targeting any of our API routes and we can test this
locally by running npm start, npm run start server.
This will spin up the Node server and we can test it by opening a new tab and visiting http://www.localhost:3000
because that is our local testing domain of the Node express app and now that we're serving everything
from one server,
this is the way to test it
and here it's not working because I forgot something, we need to start with dirname which is the absolute
path to this folder which is important to have a valid path in the first place.
So add this and then let it reload and now reload that page and
we now got an empty page here and the reason for that is that
we do get back our Angular application, as you can tell if you reload with the network tab opened.
You do get that index.html file with the app root element but all the scripts are not loaded
correctly because we need to do one other thing,
we need to allow static access to the Angular folder, just as we did it for images earlier in the course.
So we can copy that line for accessing images
but here important,
we actually want to forward requests going to just slash
nothing because we're going to serve Angular for any other route. So we don't want to make any assumptions
about the route, it should fake as if it were serving that from the root folder
but then it should be reaching out to the Angular folder.
Additionally we have to join dirname and Angular and
we should also do that on images by the way. Here for Angular,
this is absolutely required though,
otherwise this request here can't reach or the requests sent by the index.html file I should say
can't reach the Javascript files and so on it needs.
So now if you save that with that updated static route here,
if you reload the page, now you see the Angular app here too,
so now this seems to work.
So now this is the solution which we can deploy. Here
we can also quickly test if we can login and so on,
let's test that all locally.
Let's create a new post
with an image and
that is working and let's delete the post so that we don't have it in the database.
Now we can deploy that solution, so let's quit our local testing server
and let's instead again package that all up.
Now keep in mind this contains our Angular app and that's important,
you always need to rebuild the app before shipping a new version to the server
and then we can go back to our Elastic Beanstalk application and upload the new version, includes Angular.
Choose that file from the back-end folder, that archive.zip file and deploy that version which now does
include Angular and these updated settings regarding our routing or how we load Angular. This also means
that we will be able to shut down S3 and not use it anymore.
So let's wait for this to redeploy
and now that it's done, let's click that link and here, it does load the Angular app as it should.
And now let's test it here too,
let's login, let's create a new post, testing this,
let's pick an image
and add some content
and now if I save this, this also works as before,
also if we edit it without editing it or edit it with editing it or if we logout and login with a
different user, then we also still see this but we can't edit it
but now we can add our new content here of course. Just as we could do it locally
but now again on the server but now in one combined application and we can also still delete this of course.
So now everything is working as it was working throughout the course but now we deployed it and it's up to
you whether you choose that combined solution or the split up one.
Now you typically take the one with two apps
if you also plan to use your API with other client-side applications, like let's say a mobile application and
you might lean towards the integrated approach with one app only if you have, well only that one app,
if you've got no other clients connecting to it and if you therefore want to have everything run on one server.
Keep in mind, you can now also remove these headers here.
If I comment them out in the app.js file and I redeploy this,
so let's compress that all again and let's again go back to our console here,
to the Elastic Beanstalk console and let's choose that new archive.zip file,
if I now deploy this, you will see the Angular app will still continue to work and this is only the
case if you have that integrated approach because now everything is running on the same server,
it would not work if you had different servers. This of course also means no one else can access your
API
and if that's important for you and you only got one client app that should connect to it, that would
be another argument for using that integrated one app only approach. Both is absolutely fine,
you see both in action and that is why it was important to me to show you both.
So let's just wait for this to finish,
let's reload that
and there you can see if I do login again,
this still works as before, we got no cors errors, the image was just missing because I redeployed the
entire folder which contains the image folder
and now again, we got a working application.